# Introduction

People learn differently, there's no doubt about that. I, for one, have never been able to follow a lecture. No matter how interesting the subject might be, the teacher or professor either moves too slowly or too quickly, and in both cases I lose the motivation to study and learn outside of class. Looking back at all my past lectures, this is a bit of a shame. I genuinely love learning! In fact, nowadays there's nothing I enjoy more than poring through the [ArXiv](https://arxiv.org/), looking for the latest and greatest algorithms in physics and computer science. Sure, I cannot *understand* them all, but sometimes it's nice to be completely overwhelmed and chipping away at problems one piece at a time. I find that many of these papers are a little too harsh for most people to tackle without a significant background in computer science or physics, and for this reason, they are ignored by the public.

I guess that is the point of this work. Throughout the past few years, I have been collecting small morsels of knowledge that are hard to express in any meaningful way through blog posts, youtube, or twitch streaming. Youtube, for example, is a great place to introduce the general idea of an algorithm; however, I personally find it a poor choice to show a worked example. Twitch is great to show everything, but spending 5 hours programming up an algorithm for the first time is generally not everyone's idea of fun. Blog posts work well for this type of material; however, they lack a comprehensive nature that I tend to enjoy. So what's left? A book, I guess. 

When I was younger, maybe around Jr. High School age, I really wanted to become an author. I spent as much free time as I could manage writing fantastical stories about heroes and villains creating worlds and redefining reality. It was (and still is) an enjoyable hobby of mine. Nowadays, I don't do it as much as I used to and have found yet another passion: algorithms. 

Now, to be clear, I am not a master computer scientist. In fact, my degree is in physics and at the time of writing, I am in a PhD program studying quantum systems; however, I really, really love learning algorithms. About a year or two ago, I started a Twitch stream focused on computational physics. Almost every day, I would get up at 5:00AM and livecode something I had never coded before. It was incredibly fun and through working with the community, we learned a lot. I found my programming abilities improving significantly. More importantly, I began to see the power in a community of hobby programmers.

This text is a natural extension of that idea: A community effort to learn as much as possible about as many algorithms as we can.
